Unfortunately I met with Spawn Accident three months ago.
Luckily nothing happened to me
but my car was badly
damaged.  Both the doors on the right side were
completely damaged.
In fact, there was a hole in the front door
also.  These are the pictures for you to
verify.  Now friend, as you can see, the
tyre was completely destroyed.
Now there is a reason behind this story that I am telling you.
Obviously after this
accident I called up my insurance
company and explained the whole situation but what
followed after that was a harrowing
experience.  In this video I
will share with you my experience of insurance claim
and will tell you
which insurance you should take in 2025.  Now let's see what happens
next.  As
I told you, I called my insurance
company and you can see in the pictures
that the front door was completely
damaged.  The rear door was
still in repairable condition.  So my
company told me that okay, we will
replace your front door.   We will
repair the rear door.
But we won't be able to do anything about the tyres.
I was like okay fine.  Whatever you are doing,
just do it as per your wish.  I
just requested one thing that you should get the car
repaired from the company's authorized
dealership, to which they said that
in an authorized dealership you will have to
pay GST from your pocket and I have a
100% cashless claim policy. They said
that if you get the car repaired from their preferred dealership and get the
car released from there, then
you will have to pay only paper charges, which is said to be ₹10,
apart from this you will not have to pay anything.
I was like okay, it is as per your
wish, but wait for what happens next,
so I dropped my car and after two weeks I get a
call that ma'am you have
not received the front replacement, hence
we have not even repaired the car yet, to which I
ask how much
more time will it take?  He said it could be anything from one month to two months.
We can't say anything right now.
After this I got super pist and I
decided to escalate this matter.  But neither senior nor
junior cared.  So
I thought I would reach the senior
management of the company through Lindin and
I casually mentioned BeFi as well
which opened their eyes but
they still did not give me any resolution.
He stuck to his stand.  And
finally after 2 months I got my car.
When I went to pick up my car, the
mechanic asked me there,
Madam, where are you stuck?  We
deal with companies like this every day.  And to be very
honest, your insurance is quite
average.  Now after hearing this I got upset because I
analysed the best insurances
for a living.  If I can make a mistake, then
normal people who have
no relation with finance or insurance can definitely make
this blunder.  So that day I
made a promise to myself that I will do
a full research on this
and I will give you three to four ems out there so that
you don't make the same mistake that
I did.  I am sure you want to know
which insurance company I had
such an experience with.  Now friend, I do
not want to defame that company by taking its name.
But that company has
obviously not made it to my final
shortlist.  But I will definitely tell you
with which company I am finalizing my policy.
Let's first
look at some basics.  There are
broadly two types of car insurance policies.  Third
Party and Comprehensive.  Third party
means that the
damage caused to the third party at the time of the accident is covered.
Damage to your own vehicle is
not covered under third party
insurance.
In comprehensive insurance, any damage to your vehicle is
also covered.  And the
damage caused to the third party is also covered.
Obviously,
you should take comprehensive insurance
but its premium is also high.
But you have peace of
mind with this.  Now it is clear that
you should take comprehensive insurance.
Now along with this,
I will also tell you one by one which add-ons are necessary.
First comes Return to
Invoice i.e. RTI.  RTI means
that if your vehicle suffers some major
damage.  If your vehicle is
stolen, you
get back the amount equal to the original invoice of your vehicle.  The car
insurance company will
give you an amount equal to the original invoice of your vehicle which
includes the car's ex-showroom price plus
insurance plus your RC.  If you do
not take this RTI cover, then in case
of major damage you will get the IDV of your vehicle.
IDV stands for
Insured Declared Value.  Now in case
of new vehicles, you get 90 to
95% of the ex-showroom price of your vehicle.  But
if your car is three to four years old,
you will get 60 to 65% of your car value
because of depreciation.  As you all know,
along with age, the value of the vehicle also keeps
depreciating.  So if your
car is 5 years old, its value will
automatically decrease by 50%.  But if you
add on RTI cover to it, you will
get the full value of your vehicle.  But This Cover
Will Only Get For The First Three Years Of
The Car.  The next important add-on is Zero
Depreciation Cover and Zero Dep Cover.  We
also call it bumper to bumper.  And you get it for 5
years.  As you know, the
value of the car
depreciates as soon as you buy it.  That means its
value decreases.  So for example,
if you buy a car worth Rs 10 lakh.  After 5 years,
due to depreciation, its value becomes Rs
5 lakh.  It got depreciated by 50%.
So if after 5 years your car suffers
some major damage, the cost will be Rs
500.  So without zero dep cover, your
insurance will reimburse you only 50% of it i.e. Rs
25,000.  But if
your zero dep cover is also added on then
you will get the full claim of Rs 500.  Now, by
adding on Zero Dep cover, your insurance
premium increases by 15 to 20%.
But if you can afford it you should definitely
take it.  Next comes your consumables
add-ons.  Consumables include parts
like nuts, bolts, assy, ​​coolant, ball
bearings, grease etc.  Normally these
parts are present in the front of the car.
So whenever an accident occurs in majority of the cases,
these are the parts which get
damaged the most which can
form 10 to 15% of your overall
expense.  This add-on is
not very expensive.  This add-on comes to you for ₹500-600.  That's why I'm
recommending this to you.
Apart from this there are many other add ons.
Such as engine protect, tire cover, key and
lock set replacement.  All these are not
variants.  But if you feel the need,
you can definitely add it on.
Like in my case unfortunately the
tyre got completely burst but I did not have this
add on.  So I suffered an additional loss of Rs 5000.
Meaning, if you
want complete protection then you can definitely consider all these add-
ons.
Before looking at these best insurance companies, let's take a look at the
recap.  You have to go
with comprehensive insurance not
third party.  Along with this, there are three
very important add-ons that you need to
take which are Return to Invoice, Zero
Dep Cover and Consumables.  Apart from this,
all the add-ons like engine protect, tyre cover etc. are
up to you.  If you want to take it,
you can definitely take it.  Now let us see
which are the best insurance companies in 2025.  First of all, let us
look at the claim settlement ratio and network garages of all these companies.  Now, as a hygiene filter,
I am removing those companies from the list
whose network garages are less than 4000.
Because if there is no network garage nearby then there is a
lot of problem.  You have already
seen my experience.  By the way,
I am also removing my old insurance company from this list.  So
if you can guess the name of that company,
let us know in the comments section.  It's gonna be
interesting.  Now after applying this filter
, we are left with 10 companies.
Now we will
look at the ICR i.e. Incurred Claim Ratio of all those 10 companies.  But
before that let us understand what is ICR
and why is it important?  ICR
refers to the total claim amount paid by the
insurance company in proportion to the total
premium collected in a financial year.
So if the Incurred Claim Ratio (ICR) of a company
is 88% then it means that the
insurer pays 88% towards claim payment for
every 100% of premium collected.  ICR
reveals the financial health of the company.
So if the ICR of a company is more than
100%, it means that the company is not earning as much as
it is paying claims.
This means that the
financial health of the insured is not that good and
that company may incur losses.  If the
ICR of a company is less than 70%, it means
that the company is making huge profits.  Meaning
it is rejecting more claims.
This means that it is probably charging higher premiums from people.
So ideally we should
go with a company whose ICR is between 70
to 100 just to be able to see that we have taken two
years of data to get a clear picture.  Now all
our companies listed here are in
our desired ICR range.  But
for good reason, we have also
excluded companies whose
ICR was less than 70 in any year.  After this
we are left with six companies.  Now it
is a bit difficult to select one from these.  Because everyone's
preference for insurance company may vary depending on their needs.
But let me tell you my top four here.
HDFC Ago ICICI LBR SBI and
Tata AIG like I promise I will tell you
with which company I am going to
take insurance and that would be ICICI LBR
going forward my car insurance will be
with ICICI LBR now how will be my experience with that too,
I will definitely
share that with you in a video in the future
if you see our hard work
if you found this information useful if
you liked this video then please leave a
comment below the video that this
is the best video on car insurance
our hard work will be successful.  Share this
video with family and friends and till then it becomes a
success.